So now that we've
had a chance to talk
about the parallel
ImageStreamGang example, let's
take some time to
evaluate the pros
and cons with this approach.
And one of the things
you can see right away
is that the parallel streams
version is always faster
than the sequential
streams version,
no real surprise there.
This is using my
Windows computer
with 64 gigabytes of memory.
This is my sixth core
computer running on Intel,
I think it's an i9 processor,
and running Windows on Lenovo.
So you can see you
get a good speed
up by using parallel
streams in that environment.
The images are
downloaded and processed
in parallel on the
multiple cores.
So that's obviously a win.
I think it's also
probably fair to say
that the solution is relatively
straightforward to understand.
So if you take a look at
this, as I mentioned before,
it kind of maps almost
one-to-one onto the design
intent.
We're going to get
a list of URLs.
We're going to filter out the
ones that are already cached.
We're going to download the
ones that aren't cached.
We're going to apply
the image filters.
And we're going to
display the results.
So pretty much
one-to-one mapping
onto the explanation
of the behavior.
So it closes that gap between
design intent on the one hand
and on the other hand, the
computations you have to write
are very much almost one-to-one.
Another nice thing about
this particular design
is that all the behaviors
are synchronous.
What that means is that the
callee, the thread that's
called, borrows the
thread of the caller
while the call is taking place.
So we can check the cache.
That causes the caller thread to
block till we check the cache.
We download the image.
That causes the caller thread to
block while we check the image
and get the result back.
And it's very easy to reason
about synchronous calls.
They're not mysterious.
We've all programmed with sort
of this two way invocation
return method call
model for decades.
That's the way almost
everybody I know,
including myself, learned
how to write code originally.
Another nice thing is
that the flow of control
here can be read
in a linear manner.
I can start at the top.
I can say I've got
myself a stream.
I do some filtering.
I do some mapping.
I do some flat mapping.
And there's no loops.
There's no if statements.
There's no switch statements.
It just is very
straightforward linear code.
And I also find that
to be very comforting.
You don't have to
sit there and try
to play runtime assembly
code execution engine
in your head, which is good.
Of course, there
are some downsides.
One of the obvious downsides
is that the computable futures
versions are faster than the
parallel streams versions.
Whoa!
What's going on here?
Well, it turns out,
for various reasons,
that under these scenarios
with this platform,
and the amount of memory
I have, and the cores,
and the versions of the Java
virtual machine I'm running,
and the way in which I'm
doing the processing,
that completable
futures just happen
to have less overhead
to do their thing
than parallel streams.
Other scenarios might have
different performance results.
It all depends on
various properties.
However, there's a trade off
between computing performance
on the one hand and
programmer productivity
on the other when choosing
amongst these different Java
parallelism frameworks.
So as a general rule
of thumb, which you'll
have to accept on faith
right now and then
we'll come back later and I'll
hopefully demonstrate it to you
more conclusively when we talk
about completable futures.
Completable futures are
more efficient and scalable
than parallel streams.
But they're somewhat
harder to program.
And that's because
asynchrony models
are just a little bit less
intuitive to most people
or maybe a lot less
intuitive to most people.
So that's the end
of this discussion.
I hope you enjoyed this
particular example.
I had a lot of fun writing it.
And I think you'll
have a lot of fun
using it as an example
for other things
that we do in this
class and beyond.